got a guy here no identification won't
give his name says he's your brother
says his binoculars killed somebody
that's my brother Jerry Horne now you
can't tell me that the most important
plotline in Twin Peaks wasn't resolved
in the finale
hey everyone Greg and Ryan here this is
the final breakdown for Twin Peaks the
return okay before we get started make
sure to subscribe to the GameSpot
universe channel we've still got more
game of Thrones Rick and Morty and the
finale of preacher coming up plus more
Twin Peaks right off the bat we start
with Kohl confessing to Albert that he
kept something from him for 25 years
before major Briggs disappeared he told
Gordon and Cooper about his discovery of
an entity it was an extreme negative
force in the ancient times it was called
gout day over time it's become Judy
Cooper told Gordon that if he ever
disappeared to do everything he could to
find him tiny side note we find out that
Ray was a paid informant for the FBI :
receives a call from the FBI in Vegas
and bushnell Mullins comes in to deliver
Cooper's message sheriff Truman the
number of completion and just like that
but FBI is on their way to 20 Peaks yep
I also like that we get the most agent
Albert line I think of the whole season
right at the end we found Douglas Jones
as my watch stopped or is that one of
the Marx Brothers also one thing I liked
at the beginning of that scene before
Cole gives his series recap was that
he couldn't pull the trigger on Diane
and that makes a whole lot more sense
when we go further into these two parts
also Cole delivers one of my favorite
lines in the episode I said you've gone
soft in your old age not where it counts
buddy
sockitumi socketed next up mr. C uses
the final set of coordinates to try to
find Judy the coordinates lead to the
white lodge portal that's right next to
Jackrabbits palace once inside mr. C is
locked in a cage and we see major Briggs
is head and we also see the fireman
floating up in the air just like we saw
in part a off to the side there was also
an endless chamber of those lodge style
electrical generators and this is the
moment the fireman lays his trap on mr.
C and Bob the theater screen reveals a
location of Judy the Palmer House and
the fireman makes a quick switch to send
mr. C outside the sheriff's station
instead what is this a surprise andy
brings mr. C inside okay here's where
everything goes to level 11
not too long after mr. C sits down with
Frank Truman gets a call from the real
agent Cooper and then this happens
what was that
Lucy figured out how cellphones work
apparently and I love the fanservice
they put in there and I wasn't shocked
one bit that that was pretty much the
end of the fanservice going forward
right at that point I loved it too her
trademark switchboard management that
has been part of the entire series kind
of saved Twin Peaks at the end of the
day if it wasn't for her we don't know
what would have happened no there was
another with a glove that helped out too
right so down in the lockup
chad breaks out and he comes in and
freddy intervenes with his glove takes
out chad q chad james night Oh Freddy
and his green glove companion are
brought upstairs as hot comes running in
the room goes dark and the woodsman's
start working on reviving mr. C in the
same fashion of part 8 agent Cooper
arrives and sees the woodsman working on
Bob the Bob orb exits mr. C's body and
Freddy finally figures out his destiny
Freddy punches the over a few times with
one last punch sending it through the
floor as if he's sending Bob straight to
hell the Bob orb comes out again attacks
ready one more time
Freddy punches it one last time and it
shatters the pieces float up and pass
through the ceiling now is this the end
of Bob I have no clue but I would love
to know how Frost and Lynch came up with
the Freddy Sykes character out of
nowhere they could have this be any
character in Twin Peaks but they said
nope let's make it a new character and
he's gonna show up final episodes he's
gonna show up the final parts it's crazy
it could have been James even yeah like
working at the same place they're gonna
be so many recaps and people asking
questions to David Lynch and Frost I
just want to know that one question of
what was the idea behind Freddy Sykes I
love it
I think that's a good number one I was
still a little bummed to see mr. Cooper
go out like that
it's very dick Halloran and Stanley
Kubrick's The Shining he goes all this
way this whole journey just to get shot
in the back of the head over 18 parts I
grew to appreciate him
unlike Leland Palmer mr. Cooper had can
trol above in fact it's possible that
all Bob was doing for him was making him
invincible
I think mr. C may have been going to
Twin Peaks to free himself of Judy's
influence remember when he goes into the
lodge we see the Palmers home on the
screen before the fireman swipes right
over to the sheriff's department I had
some investment in the idea that good
Dale and bad deal would team up to
defeat Judy but it also makes sense that
the lodge / FBI wouldn't care about mr.
Cooper's interests he was a free agent
looking out for himself living the
American dream
how's mr. C gonna go out oh he's gonna
get shot by Lucy and then a man with the
green gloves got punched Bob out of
existence right that makes sense oh yeah
after everything that just transpired
Cooper walks over to mr. C and puts the
Al Cave wearing on his finger and his
doppelganger finally returns to the Red
Room one for the grandkids
Cooper grabs the room key to the Great
Northern from Frank and then things take
a turn the moment he lays eyes on Nadeau
and then we get a superimpose Dale
Cooper like over the screen for like
fades in and out at points it was really
weird but then I realized that this is
probably the moment that he realizes
that he's in the dream the whole Twin
Peaks gang shows up like it's the ending
of The Wizard of Oz and then Cooper
explains now there are some things that
will change
the past dictates the future
Naruto goes over to Cooper and they
touch hands her face starts to smoke and
Diane takes Naruto's place now with red
hair okay okay okay okay yeah yeah sure
and then we get the clock stuck ticking
on 253 and then goes Cooper hits us with
[Music]
what the [ __ ] was that we live inside a
dream Cooper tells everyone I hope I see
all of you again the room goes dark
again and somehow Cooper Diane and
Gordon are walking in the boiler room at
the Great Northern where James was
looking around a few parts back the key
opens the locked door and Cooper tells
the crew did not follow him through and
then he gives one final line to Diane
see you at the curtain call Cooper meets
up with Phillip Gerard and recites the
fire walk with me chant one chance
between two worlds they walk to our
Philip Jeffries teapot is located in the
red diamond City Motel Cooper then gives
Jeffries the date February 23rd 1989
yeah so apparently Jeffries can send
people through time or something you
didn't know that already
I also like that Jeffries has some sort
of slight humanity left he says it's
good to see you the whole Jeffries
circumstance reminds me of captain
Powell and John Carpenter's first film
Dark Star they're the dead ship's
captain is kept on ice for consultation
and he's totally out of it when they
talked to it next up we see the AL cave
symbol transform into an infinity symbol
and Gerard screams electricity and coop
is sent back to the moments right before
Laura Palmer's death in fire walk with
me so I took that as like just that the
infinity sign like this is time and then
the little ball boom this is where we're
gonna send you and move you from one
place to the other mm-hmm Cooper appears
in the woods and sees Laura and James
from the exact same scene from fire walk
with me right before Laura says her
final goodbyes to James in the original
scene they ride a little and Laura jumps
off the bike to meet Leo jocks in renee
now in this reality Laura starts walking
and she sees Cooper standing in the
woods
I see new entry
[Music]
Cooper reaches his hand out to her and
everything from the past starts to
change Laura Palmer's body wrapped in
plastic flickers out of existence and
Pete Martel finally goes fishing Laura
asks Cooper where are we going
and Cooper hits us with we're going home
all right and that's it everything's
fixed goodnight folks
that was perfect I loved it from there
at the present-day Palmer House
there's moaning in the distance it's
Sarah crying in the living room she
grabs Laura's picture and stabs it with
a bottle over and over back in the woods
Cooper tries to take Laura to the portal
for the White Lodge even though they
were holding hands we hear that strange
clicking noise from part one and Laura
is suddenly gone she can be heard
screaming just like in part one the
woods turned to a stage at the Roadhouse
Julie Cruise is singing the world spins
for the final performance of the return
when part 17 ended you and I were both
looking a Charlie that felt complete to
me like that was it he got Bob gone and
Laura's back in the lodge or whatever is
going on like if you're gonna end it
there that's fine that would've been a
cool ending but we got a better one okay
let's do this are you sure yes we have
to talk about part 18 but things might
change
whatever I don't care electricity good
part 18 is where the return departs from
the original Twin Peaks storyline proper
and has been the subject of much
speculation and disappointment for those
who have been watching our recaps you
will remember that my wingnut theory
after part 16 was that the conclusion
would be a prequel like fire walk with
me I was partially right about that but
I also warned that some things will
remain unresolved and we should be
prepared I actually love the dreamy
darkness of part 18
I believe this series is complete with
this conclusion it gave me the
impression of a grandeur designed beyond
a supernatural murder mystery of the
original series blossoming with a cosmic
battle caused by man-made
self-destruction a fight between light
and darkness that has entered its house
with time and dimension traveling FBI
agents weren't to defend the good rolled
into it before we go any further I want
to say a few things about reading Lynch
over the last 20 years of his career
he's developed a film grammar around
dreams reflections and perception he
began with a simple story of a flawed
marriage expressed through the
subjective and transformative lens of
the kind of psychosis and paranoia that
can arise in that space after a
statement digression that showed he
could peacefully ruminate on aging in a
simple straight story Lynch moved into
Mahal and drive
[Music]
the film was originally intended to be a
television series but fate would have it
that he would instead transform the
pilot into a feature film about the
ravages of Hollywood and how its bleak
male-dominated soul grinder would even
turn women who loved one another against
each other in that film it takes an
accident literally a car accident to
give the soul of Camila Rhodes the rare
transcendental opportunity to perceive
the recurring destructive cycle for what
it is and what it is has plenty of room
for interpretation between the forces of
pure evil pure good and every pawn in
between their struggle like twin peaks'
Mulholland Drive is filled with curious
transitions time shifts doppelgangers
and other dreamlike elements and you
were there and you were there and you
were there lastly Inland Empire is
probably the height of untethered David
Lynch
if you thought aspects of the returner
inscrutable I challenge you to unpack
Inland Empire at three hours shot
entirely on mini DV and positively
bananas full disclosure I never unpacked
it myself I could only sit through it
once and for as intrigued as I was I
couldn't go back in and you were there
and you were there and you were there
and that's what's brought us to where we
are today finally we get to Twin Peaks
the return an eighteen part film that
builds upon Lynch's fascination with
dreaming in collaboration with Mark
Frost and sourcing out of their works
from 25 years ago and most recently
Frost's novel the secret history of Twin
Peaks the return is not different from
these other works by Lynch
it is likely mechanically or narrative
Lee sound at least I should say the
return specifically it is possible that
the design for the return is not
entirely mechanically sound with the
original series or even fire walk with
me there is also so much more to
deconstruct than we've ever had before
eighteen parts that drawing a solid
conclusion or a correct interpretation
will take more than just a few days and
crucial further viewing most importantly
its interpretation is more up to you the
viewer to find personally than it is to
conclude a narrative final summation
[ __ ] if we ask you to tell him your life
story
[ __ ] hours that said we will hazard
such a conclusion here and my theory
that follows is the correct
interpretation just kidding this is my
best first swing and something that I
hope to look at more deeply for some
time to come in part 18 we depart from
Twin Peaks and move into uncharted
territory
mr. Cooper burns in the Red Room Mike
manufactures a new dougie ganger for
Janie e Dale has definitely lost Laura
Palmer as we hear the sound from the
phonograph in part 1 followed by Laura's
screen
that scream Laura's scream we've now
heard so many times especially in just
these two parts that it's becoming like
the famous Wilhelm scream we go back to
the Red Room or events from the
beginning of the return play out again
but with variation significantly the
evolved arm says I read this as implying
that the original Twin Peaks universe
was perhaps the wrong occurring timeline
in which to reacquire Laura
following this Dale exits the Red Room
via the door he attempted to exit
through in part two here he is reunited
with Diane is he really in this moment
our time-traveling duo is finally united
this is where Dell was trying to go all
along but couldn't because of his split
existence the curtains fade and soon
they're on the open road Diane questions
whether they should go through with
their plan but Dale is insistent they
reached the dividing line 430 miles
exactly from somewhere or someone else
the biggest electrical wires we've seen
in the entire series are humming echoing
Dale's warning at the Sheriff's
Department they kiss knowing they may
not see each other again for a long time
next it's nighttime the mood is
different they stop at a motel where
Diane sees another version of herself
outside
what follows is an awkward lovemaking
scene reminiscent of the one in Lost
Highway the platters my prayer plays as
Diane goes into a darker and darker
space
in the morning she is gone but has left
a note dear Richard Richard when you
read this I'll be gone please don't try
to find me I don't recognize you anymore
bring him whatever it was we had
together is over Linda so here we
finally get Richard and Linda they have
transformed and by moving through time /
reality have forgotten each other
Linda's note echos the loss of knowing
someone from the audrey and charlie
scenes you tally the side effects of
time travel i imagine this has happened
many times a tragic professional hazard
for time coups Richards reaction is not
immediately understanding of this change
either does he remember his meeting the
firemen side note props to all the
predictors who had Diane as both Naito
and Linda that was great on the anagram
theory good job guys I honestly didn't
think that was the case but [ __ ] when
Richard emerges from the motel room it
is an entirely different motel and
possibly an entirely different time he
glances back at the room has always
forgotten something he can't place has
he forgotten Diane he drives into Odessa
Texas population ninety nine thousand
nine hundred and forty I looked this up
this was the population from the 2010
census which places his instance at
roughly that time he drives to a diner
called eat at Judy's side note the real
world restaurant is called eat at Rudy's
and it's in Wilmington California I'll
bet the owner has no idea what they
signed up for when they decided to do
Twin Peaks they're about to have years
of twin peaks' fans streaming through
that diner here Richard encounter some
rude gun-toting Texans that he quickly
inefficiently dispatches
I'm gonna credit mark frost with getting
one more gun proliferation jab in before
the series was up Richard then gets the
waitress to write down the address of
the other waitress who works there this
is an interesting scene because it's
apparent that Richard is a full Cooper
he is methodical and a bit cold like mr.
C but still somewhat considerate where
do you hang this finally he arrives at
the home of the other waitress the
number six pole from the fat trap
trailer park is here the woman who
answers the door is played by Sheryl Lee
but she insists she is not Laura Palmer
but Carrie Paige no relation however she
does show some recognition at the
mention of Sarah Palmer he implores her
to join him on a trip to Twin Peaks
which she agrees to because well she's
got her own problems
my original read on the rest of part 18
was that Dale had quantum leaped into a
timeline without Laura and just
doppelganger or possibly Topa of Laura
and that he had simply failed this
mission this instance however now I
think that Laura could be a time agent
too and just as capable of forgetting
herself as the others the dead man in
her home has been shot in the head but
he also has a gut wound that looks
conspicuously like a bad orb may have
emerged but was destroyed by agent
Palmer also in that scene take note of
that white horse is behind that blue
plate we always thought that the white
horses represent death suffering drugs
and they're always around Sarah Palmer
which makes people think now that that
white horse might represent Judy as well
I believe that yeah I mean now that we
have that hindsight it seems so much
more clear I mean and think about an
episode a dark what transpires next is
possibly the most harrowing ly slow
sequence of the entire series
[Music]
yeah slower than that they drive from
Odessa Texas to Twin Peaks Washington so
to be totally fair in Twin Peaks formal
cadence it's totally appropriate
there's no sir Davos speedy fast travel
in this finale just to move things along
eventually they arrive in Twin Peaks
they passed the Double R and are soon at
the Palmer House here Richard introduces
himself as Special Agent Dale Cooper
there are a host of possibilities at
this point he transitioned back to coop
when he left the motel or that Richard
believes he is in the twin peaks'
timeline where he should impersonate
Cooper
whatever the case Sarah Palmer does not
live at the house anymore or never did
we learned it was formerly owned by mrs.
Chalfont and currently belongs to a
lustrum ond and her husband mrs. turmond
of course and her grandson are memorable
from earlier twin peaks' cannon she gave
Lora the picture of the transition space
that leads sometimes of the Red Room and
recently to the limbo version of the red
diamond motel mrs. Chaplin is also the
former owner of the trailer underneath
which Chester Desmond discovered the AL
cave ring before disappearing from
reality if this is around 2010 we can
conclude that in this reality or
timeline the ciao fans did better
financially but are still somehow
connected to the darkness so the journey
was a bust
Richard and Kerry returned to the street
where Richard pauses trying to figure
out his missteps or miscalculation he
asks what year is this moments later
Sara Palmer's voice from Episode one of
the original Twin Peaks calls out for
Laura then Carrie lets out the Laura
scream the lights go out in the Tremont
home electricity pops and we go to black
ominous dark Badalamenti music fades in
followed by Laura whispering into Dale's
ear in the Red Room my read is that
Kerry realize she was Laura screamed and
straight up popped the timeline out of
existence the submission from that
reality was complete this universe is
bob was dead and Dale had located Laura
back in the red room Laura's whispering
to Dale again this time about the next
reality that time coop will be sent to I
liked that theory a lot but
I read the ending slightly different
first off I believe coop and Diane
entered Judy's reality time line
dimension whatever you want to call it
judy steals away Laura when coop is
rescuing her and Diane and coop give
chase here Richard and Linda seem to be
indistinguishable from their
doppelgangers Diane retains all the
trauma of her doppelganger which we see
from her car and Cooper maintains many
of the characteristics of mr. C I don't
know if the oil is hot enough to set off
those bullets but I'd move away now
Diane falls into Judy's ugly reality and
becomes Linda to Cooper's Richard and
this is the moment I couldn't help but
think of money the all-time greatest
films ever made and one of my favorites
Alfred Hitchcock's vertigo
Richard mirrors so much of Scotty from
vertigo that's impossible not to notice
[Music]
two men that are engulfed in a dream
that they can't seem to break one damn
there goes insane for a love that's not
real and the other is driven by his FBI
detective morals to finish a case no
matter the cost
I believe Judy tried to stop coop from
his mission and have him fall into the
fake world just like Diane did hence the
motel shifting before and after Diane
and Cooper stay or Laura being off at
work that day at Judy's also the dead
body another attempt by Judy to make
Dale question whether or not this is
truly Laura but coop remembers what the
fireman tells him and he takes Carrie
back to the Palmer home of course Sarah
isn't there and Cooper is almost ready
to give in at this point he's looking
for any sign of help it even looks like
he's possibly looking for Mike to help
out when he slumps down but then he says
what year is this Sarah reaches out to
Laura and Laura suddenly remembers
everything
she becomes Laura again the electricity
goes out in the Palmer House and Judy is
defeated that's what I got who knows how
this theory holds up in the next days
weeks months yours I don't know it's
gonna probably evolve a million times
from now I mean it should take some time
you know when I was younger I watched
Mulholland Drive five times in a movie
theater and
sit down at a cafe and figure it out
over a few hours well this is an 18 part
series and that's just this part of that
and just to get the like crucial second
viewing out is gonna is an eight-hour
journey and that's it for us over here
everybody thank you so much for watching
this has been an honor and a privilege
to get to talk about Twin Peaks every
single week I loved it I mean these are
some of my favorite filmmakers and
special thanks to Mark Frost
David Lynch the great cinematography
from Peter Deming expert cutting by
Duane Dunham and music supervision by
Dean Hurley Kyle MacLachlan Laura Dern
Naomi Watts the whole cast of the series
and of course everybody who's watched it
with us joined us in the comments hit us
on Twitter it's been wonderful
what are you doing this isn't over yet
I'm gonna go find Audrey goddamnit
what recap is this
[Music]